title=Jack Frosch - Introduction to Grails, Part I
date=2014-05-07
type=post
tags=blog
status=published
~~~~~~

## Abstract

Anyone who has used any of the Java web frameworks like Struts, JavaServer Faces or Spring MVC has a pretty good idea of how web development is done with Java and the Java Servlet API, with or without JSPs. You probably have also used Spring and Hibernate. And maybe a page templating API, like Facelets in JSF, Tiles in Struts, SiteMesh, etc.

Grails leverages a technology stack filled with these common APIs and frameworks, like Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate for ORM (by default), SiteMesh, etc. However, it's high extensible with a robust plugin system and hundreds of plugins available to solve many common problems with easy configuration and a little coding.

Simply put, Grails is nothing like you've ever seen in Java web frameworks. Grails leverages Groovy to offers high productivity, with low ceremony, and a beautiful elegance simply not possible with traditional Java-based web frameworks.

This talk is structured in two parts, the first covering Grails basics and the second (scheduled for June) covering more intermediate Grails topics. These talks are ideal for Java and Groovy developers wanting to see one of the Groovy "killer applications" that uses Groovy to the fullest. Don't worry if you're not a Groovy expert; you don't need to be to start getting benefits from Grails.

In Part I, to be presented on May 7th, we will explore the following topics to introduce you to Grails:
Getting started with the Grails framework (with a little Groovy intro)
Using the Grails Command Line & Console
Dynamic and Static Scaffolding
Domain classes
Controllers
GORM CRUD / dynamic finders
Working with Views & Layouts
Overview of dependency management, configuration, bootstrapping, and runtime options
Download the slide deck here

## Bio

Jack Frosch is a seasoned software developer / architect and entrepreneur, currently supporting CenturyLink on a project. He has been developing with Groovy and Grails for about six years, Spring and Hibernate since about 2003, and Java for nearly 18 years. (Has it really been that long?!) He started doing object-oriented programming in 1988 with C++, but he's gotten a lot smarter about how to do OOP since then. A zealous Agile development proponent, Jack is a Certified ScrumMaster and TDD evangelist. Over the years, he has formed and led multiple developer and special interest groups. He became co-lead of the DFW Groovy/Grails User Group in September 2013 until accepting a project in the St. Louis area late March 2014.

